# ExpandableV2Mixin

Provides support for the setting `expand` URL query parameter as introduced by the 
`api/v2/nodes/:id` or `api/v2/nodes/:id/nodes` (V2) resources.

Server responses can contain references to other resources; typically IDs or URLs.
The *expansion* means replacing them with object literals containing the resource
information, so that the caller does not have to request every associated resource
by an additional server call.

Expanding needs the role to expand from (`properties`, `versions` etc.)
and optionally the name or names of properties to expand (`parent_id`,
`create_user_id` etc.).

### How to apply the mixin to a model

```
var MyModel = Backbone.Model.extend({

  constructor: function MyModel(attributes, options) {
    Backbone.Model.prototype.constructor.apply(this, arguments);
    this
      .makeConnectable(options)
      .makeExpandableV2(options);
  },

  url: function () {
    var url = Url.combine(this.connector.connection.url, 'myresource'),
        query = Url.combineQueryString(
          this.getExpandableResourcesUrlQuery()
        );
    return query ? url + '?' + query : url;
  }
  
});

ConnectableMixin.mixin(MyModel.prototype);
ExpandableV2Mixin.mixin(MyModel.prototype);
```

This mixin us usually combined together with the `ConnectableMixin`
or with another cumulated mixin which includes it.

### How to use the mixin

Set up the URL parameters by calling `setExpand` and `resetExpand` and fetch the model:

```
// Set the expansion when creating the model
var model = new MyModel(undefined, {
      connector: connector,
      expand: {
        properties: ['parent_id', 'create_user_id']
      }
    });
model.fetch();

// Set the expansion after creating the model
model.setExpand('properties', ['parent_id', 'create_user_id']);
model.fetch();
```

## makeExpandableV2(options) : this

Must be called in the constructor to initialize the mixin functionality.
Expects the Backbone.Model or Backbone.Collection constructor options passed in.

Recognized option properties:

expand
: One or more resources to expand.  Keys and values from the object literal
  are handled the same way as the `setExpand` method does the key and value
  (role and properties).  An empty object literal is the default.

## expand

Resources to get expanded in the response (object literal of strings pointing
to arrays of strings, empty by default, read-only).

## hasExpand(role) : boolean

Checks if a specific or any resource will be expanded.  The `role` parameter
is a string.

```
// Checks if any resource is expanded
var anythingExpanded = model.hasExpand();
// Checks if any common properties are expancded
var propertiesExpanded = model.hasExpand('properties');
```

## setExpand(role, names) : void

Makes one or more resources expanded.  The `role` parameter is a string.  The
`names` parameter can be either string, or an array of strings.  The string can
contain a comma-delimited list, in which case it will be split to an array.

```
// Have two resources expanded, option 1
model.setExpand('properties', ['parent_id', 'create_user_id']);
// Have two resources expanded, option 2
model.setExpand('properties', 'parent_id');
model.setExpand('properties', 'create_user_id');
// Have two resource types expanded, option 3
model.setExpand('properties', 'parent_id,create_user_id');
```

## resetExpand(role, names) : void

Prevents one or more resources from being expanded.  The `role` parameter is a
string.  If nothing is specified, all roles will be removed (disabled).  The
`names` parameter can be either string, or an array of strings.  The string can
contain a comma-delimited list, in which case it will be split to an array.  If
nothing is specified, all properties from the role  will be removed (disabled).

```
// Cancel all expansions and fetch the fresh data
model.resetExpand();
model.fetch();
```

## getExpandableResourcesUrlQuery() : string

Formats the URL query parameters for the resource expansion.  They can be concatenated
with other URL query parts (both object literals and strings) by `Url.combineQueryString`.

```
var url = ...,
    query = Url.combineQueryString(
      ...,
      this.getExpandableResourcesUrlQuery()
    );
if (query) {
  url = Url.appendQuery(url, query);
}
```

## See Also

`ConnectableMixin`, `ResourceMixin`
